Why don't we start with the state of the
union for Brookfield? You guys manage
about a trillion dollars. Where is it
allocated
and how is it allocated?
>> So, our business today is really built
around raising capital from the largest
pools of money around the world and then
turning around and deploying that
capital into the largest and most
attractive investment themes around the
world. As a result, we are a very global
business. We raise money all over the
world and then equally we deploy it into
60 of the biggest countries and and
markets. Undoubtedly, our our biggest
markets
continue to be the United States and
Western Europe, but we are truly a
global business today with operations
across Asia Pac, India, the Middle East
and South America as well.
>> When I spoke to Bruce last, he mentioned
that he wanted the next generation to be
better than him. And I'm curious what
what have you learned that's non-obvious
working with him?
>> That's a pretty high bar to exceed. I
think what Bruce has
built
is amazing and quite frankly
underappreciated.
In particular, not only the
the investment platform and the the
asset base, but but equally the the
culture.
That and I think it's that culture that
will ensure that we can keep growing and
keep building the way Bruce and other
members of senior management have built
up the firm for the last two plus
decades.
In terms of some of the things that
Bruce
has done and and not just Bruce, but
Bruce and other members of senior
management is they're incredibly
balanced.
When there are big moves in the market
that they're very measured
in terms of how they respond and how
they think through changing dynamics.
Secondly, I would say very
forward-looking.
We learn a lot from the past, but we
don't spend a lot of time dwelling on
it, if I can say it that way.
And [snorts] then
you know, that importance of culture,
the scale of what
has been built and often why I feel it's
so underappreciated,
it
is because
one of the big cultural aspects of
Brookfield is is almost worry about
putting others in a position to succeed
more more than yourself. And Bruce
certainly embodies that as do others and
therefore I don't think they always get
the credit for what they've built, but
we're very fortunate now to have this
exceptional platform that is on the
absolute front of some of the largest,
most enduring and most attractive
investment themes that have been running
for three or four or five years and are
going to continue to run for, you know,
one or two decades going forward.
>> Where would you say you're different
from him?
>> There's no question, you know, he he's
been doing it for 20 years longer than I
have. Um in a lot of ways I think we
we've found each other to be very
complimentary.
The job is of course we run a very large
investment organization and therefore
the most important thing
we do is deploy capital at exceptional
returns. That is the bedrock, that is
the foundation of our business. That is
always what we're going to be known for,
but in order to do that at an increasing
scale and over a long duration of time,
you have to be better at so many other
things as well. You have to be very good
at building teams. You have to be very
good at communicating strategy,
communicating and interacting with your
clients, your LP partners, your
counterparties. It's that breadth beyond
just the investment role. And
been very fortunate to watch how Bruce
excels in in all of that and and
hopefully absorb some of it over over
the last, you know, 12-plus years of
working together.
>> Has the nature of how you invest
changed? And I mean in the sense of
seems like we've gone from a traditional
sort of LP structure. There seems to be
a lot more co-invest now, and there's
different products available.
>> I don't know that the nature of how we
invest has changed.
There are some things that have changed,
but our one of the things we love about
our our business and our approach is
we've been very consistent over an
exceptionally long period of time. We
focus on high-quality assets that make
up the backbone of the global economy,
you know, critical assets or services
that really drive the growth and
productivity of the communities and and
and countries within which they exist.
Now, it's easy to say that we've been
very disciplined and focused on on that
approach and that theme, but there are
things that have obviously changed.
The assets and services that make up the
backbone of the global economy are
constantly evolving. We give the example
that, you know,
probably
2/3, maybe even 70% of what we invest in
today was not an investable asset class
15 or 20 years ago. 20 years ago, we
invested in hydro dams. Today, we invest
in solar and nuclear and batteries.
20 years ago, we invested in ports and
railroads. We, of course, still invest
in ports and railroads, but we also
invest in data centers and and fiber and
telecom towers.
So, while we've been very consistent and
focused on the backbone of the global
economy, that of course changes over
time.
The The other thing that changes is well
our
downside focused
approach to investing targeting that
backbone of the global economy has been
very consistent. A big part of our
business over the last really 10 years
has been taking that approach and either
packaging it different to meet the needs
of a different and growing and
increasingly diverse spectrum of of LP
partners and clients and also
distributing those products in different
ways.
Um I'll give the example that 10 years
ago I think we had four products. Today
we have 60.
And what has happened over those four
years is we've been very consistent in
the verticals we focus on. We focus on
infrastructure and real estate and
private equity.
But within each of those verticals, we
used to just have a flagship strategy.
Now we look to have a flagship strategy,
a mezzanine debt strategy, a super core
strategy, a strategy focused on the
retail wealth channel. And that's led to
using that same consistent and approach
and focus of investing but
distributing it packaging it across a
wider spectrum of products such that it
can be used to service a wider spectrum
of partner and and clients.
>> One thing I'm curious about is your
meteoric rise. You went from CIBC,
jumped into Brookfield, and you've
just been on this trajectory that is
hard to imagine. What do you think
contributed to that? Like what did you
have that other people didn't have? At
least part of the answer has to be good
fortune. Uh of course and
uh good fortune in that
um was fortunate to work on some
transactions and initiatives that were
very successful. Good fortune to
uh
in a few different places be right
place, right time. Th- Things more
tangible, however, I had incredible
mentorship, first and foremost. A- And
the obvious one that jumps out there is
Bruce, but it goes so much beyond that,
you know?
Right from the first boss I had at
Brookfield,
that gentleman was, you know, as much
boss as as mentor and friend to me and
really helped me develop. And well, it
was early in my career. I think a lot of
the things he taught me paid huge
dividends down the line.
>> What are some of those things he taught
you?
>> I do think one thing that perhaps junior
investment professionals
spend a lot of time focusing on is
trying to get that the model or the
analysis perfect. There's almost a false
degree of precision in in today's world
of Excel.
>> Yeah.
>> Um the reality is
so many times you just have to overlay
good judgment. And you have to recognize
um
there are certain things outside of your
control that, you know, your Excel model
will seem like a certainty, but but
aren't. A- And then another thing
I I really attribute to to that first
mentor and boss I had at Brookfield is,
and I might get the exact words wrong,
but something along the lines of
"There's no absolute certainties in this
business. So, when something feels 90%
right, you do that transaction or you do
that deal, and the most important thing
is you do 10 of them. And you're going
to be right nine times out of 10. And
that's really, really good. If you wait
to try and de-risk everything to the
absolute nth degree, amazing, you'll
de-risk your transactions, you'll also
do none of them. Other things that I
think were
you know, maybe just going a little bit
further on that point is
one of the things that was very
formative, I would say, in in my career
was after joining Brookfield, I did four
and a half, five years initially in the
private equity group in Toronto, and in
2016, I I moved to London. And
concurrent with that move, I I switched
to the renewable power team at
Brookfield and was part of a small group
that was focused on building out a
European platform.
That that was amazing. There is a
incredible forcing function of not
working in the same
office as your boss, if I could say it
that way. You're you're not going to
send an email to ask to send an email.
You're not going to wait five hours for
the time zone to catch up to check
something
um if you're pretty sure it's right. And
maybe this is personal to me,
when you begin to take the initiative
and do those things on your own
prerogative, you think you're going to
have a really low shooting percentage.
And then almost shockingly positive to
the upside, you you actually have a much
higher shooting percentage you than you
expect. And and that's fun. You know,
you you start getting stuff done, you
start making progress, uh you start
building things with the the team around
you, and you get some momentum in that
almost spirit and and and excitement
just snowballs from there.
>> I think the story is you you were told
to go to renewables, not necessarily
asked.
>> Yeah, I did.
>> How did you feel about that?
>> So so this was in 2016 and and when I
was asked to move to London, concurrent
with that move, I I switched teams and
uh people always say, "Oh, did did you
want to join renewables?" The the honest
answer is no, I didn't have some weird
desire to or some strong specific desire
to go to renewables, but Bruce and and
Cyrus Madan who built our private equity
business asked if I would and
I of course said yes. And if they'd
asked me to go into infrastructure or
real estate, I probably have a different
business card today. I love the firm and
I do whatever they ask me to.
Again, I was very fortunate that I
joined the renewables team, you know, in
the
early innings of what has been one of
the largest and fastest growing industry
builds in history.
>> So, we had big tailwinds with
renewables. You had great mentors.
Something specific to you that other
people have mentioned to me is your just
your work ethic. Talk to me about that.
>> There's a lot of people that work really
really hard.
I
I've
always felt that that's
something within your control that can
be a differentiating factor. And it's
really two things. One, yes, if you work
hard, you have a bigger capacity to do
more stuff. You know, that's the the
obvious one.
The other
comment or dynamic that I think is
sometimes under appreciated is
just being available for other people on
the team.
And there's always people both both
junior and senior
to you that have questions, want to
bounce an idea off you,
want career advice, deal specific
advice. And just being available for
people and always being willing to make
time. And yeah, maybe that means you're,
you know, taking calls while you're
walking through an airport or at late at
night, but
um
I think it's funny. I I don't know that
when people think I work hard, it's, you
know, I was crunching more Excel models
or building more PowerPoint. I almost
think it's the availability that that
people perceive as as
or represent as working hard.
>> Did you have any setbacks along the way?
>> Oh, tons.
>> What are some of the ones that stand
out?
>> Yeah, for sure. There's always deals
that didn't go well or, you know, let me
almost put it as a different way.
I I
I remember very early in my career,
again, another great mentor,
this was very shortly after I joined
Brookfield, they they made a comment to
me, "Conor, you're doing really well.
You're you're I I had a bit of a unique
background before I joined Brookfield. I
didn't really have a financial modeling
background or evaluation background, and
then I joined a private equity group in
an investment position. So,
I had a pretty steep learning curve at
the beginning, and I remember maybe 12
or 14 months in, someone said, "You're
doing really well. You know, you're
picking up the skills. You're you're
producing great work,
but when you go to present it, nobody
knows what you're talking about. You're
you're you're you're trying to explain
too much. Your explanations are too
complicated." I remember when I got that
advice initially, it put me in a
tailspin. I I was crushed. I thought
that was the end of my career. And then,
you know, you wake up the next day with
a fresh perspective, and you go,
"Well, it was tough to hear that the
people
don't understand what I'm talking about,
but so great to learn that now and focus
on it, and then you realize that it's
not just the ability to do the work, but
explain the work. And if you can't if
you can't do both, you know, it's kind
of irrelevant."
>> You mentioned sort of getting to 90%,
and that is that's sort of the target
you want to get to, and you want to do
10 deals. How do you think about
de-risking deals? Do you isolate
particular variables, or how does that
work?
>> So much of what we do at Brookfield is
de-risking different business activities
in such a way that we can turn the
construction of a project or the
operations of a project into a long-term
inflation linked stream of cash flows.
We are very comfortable taking execution
risk, operating risk, development risk.
We don't like to take market risk and we
work very, very hard to structure our
deals or execute in such a way that
we're we're not taking market risk. And
I'll give an example of that.
When you uh
build a renewable power plant, let's
just say a solar farm. There's really
four key drivers uh of what your end
return is going to be. It's your
construction cost, it's your revenue
off-take, your power purchase agreement.
It's your EPC and your financing.
We are very fortunate to have built one
of the largest um renewable power
operating and development platforms
around the world. Whenever we build a
new project, we do not like to put
capital in the ground unless we lock in
our CAPEX contract, our off-take
contract, our EPC contract, and our
financing contract all at once. Cuz if
you lock in those four things and you
execute, it doesn't matter if interest
rates go up or down, you've locked in
long-term financing. It doesn't matter
if power prices go up or down, you've
locked in a long-term contracted revenue
price. It doesn't matter if inflation
goes up or down, you've locked in your
CAPEX. So, and and we do that in our
power business, we take a very similar
approach to our real estate business,
uh building new real estate on on behalf
of long-term tenants. We're now doing it
in data centers, building uh
gigafactories on the
uh on the back of long-term contracts
with hyperscalers or or sovereign
off-takes. It's a very repeatable
business model where we're comfortable
taking operating and development risk.
We feel we have an expertise in that,
but we work very hard to to structure
and de-risk out market market risk.
>> What's EPC?
>> The construction company. The
engineering, procurement, and
construction.
>> Okay.
You're in meetings all day. You're
trying to stay present, but you're also
worried you'll forget the decision, the
action item, the important next step.
That's where Grainola comes in. Grainola
is an AI-powered notepad for meetings.
You jot down rough notes like you always
do, and in the background Grainola
transcribes and turns them into clear,
useful notes when the meeting ends.
There are no bots joining your calls, no
distractions, just a clean notepad that
helps you focus. During or after the
call, you can chat with your notes. You
can ask Grainola to pull out action
items, help you negotiate, make a
decision, write a follow-up email, and
so much more. I even use it when I'm
listening to podcasts. Once you try it
on a first meeting, it's hard to go
without. Head to grainola.ai/shane
and get 3 months free with the code
Shane. That's grainola.ai/shane.
>> Most things worth having in life reward
focus. Dating should, too. The League is
built for people like me who know who
they are and what they want. Instead of
endless options, it delivered me a
curated set of profiles each day, so my
time and attention stay directed towards
what matters.
What stood out to me most is the
community. High-quality people who are
intentional and serious about building
something real.
If you're ready to approach dating the
same way you approach the rest of your
life, with clarity and purpose, this is
worth your attention. The League, find
someone in yours. Download the app and
apply today.
>> And I'm curious about data centers. What
are the the variables that you try to
pick out? What are the variables that
matter in that scenario?
>> It very similar. Um you know, you've got
your construction cost, you've got your
power supply,
uh and you've got your long-term compute
contract. Data centers are fascinating
today because
it's not that long ago, maybe only
5, 6, 7 years ago when an investor was
investing
in a data center, they were really
funding the rack and the shell against a
long-term off-take, typically with a
hyperscaler long-term take-or-pay
inflation-linked off-take.
There's three things happening in the
space that are
expanding that opportunity very rapidly
today. And they're they're all
compounding on each other. There's more
data centers being built. The data
centers that are being built are bigger
than the ones that used to get built.
And then the third thing is where
historically the investor would fund the
rack and the shell, increasingly now
that investor is funding the rack, the
shell, the chips, the servers, the power
supply, the grid connection, the
substation, the redundancy. They're
funding that whole
data center plus the the energy supply
chain, but it's still all wrapped in
that long-term
off-take, typically with an extremely
high credit quality counterparty, either
one of the big global hyperscalers or or
a sovereign off-take.
>> That's interesting you mentioned that
high quality counterparty cuz one of the
things that strikes me when I read these
headlines anyway is, you know, hundred
billion-dollar contract over 10 years or
something. You really have to Like
there's a lot of embedded risk in that.
The headline numbers are great, but can
people pay? Like 5 years from now? What
if it's a depreciating asset? Like how
do What if it changes?
>> So So two things that are interesting
there. One,
the amazing thing about, we'll call it
AI infrastructure today, is who are your
counterparties? These are literally the
greatest companies in the world, the
highest credit quality counterparties in
the world, the large tech companies. Um
they're the greatest companies in the
world today. They're they're almost
undoubtedly the greatest companies of
all time. That is the corporate credit
counterparty risk you are taking, which
it is as good as we've ever seen.
The other point that that's perhaps
interesting is sometimes we get asked,
why do things get turned down
during an investment process at
Brookfield? And
of course there's a pretty wide range of
things, but I would say
of deals that we choose to pursue, but
then you know, in diligence or in
structuring decide to walk away, there's
two reasons that are most common.
One, we don't like the revenue construct
or the corporate credit counterparty
that backstops that revenue construct.
That would be reason one. Or reason two,
it's too much construction or
development risk relative to the the
return uh that the opportunity
generates. I would say those across our
infrastructure business, across our real
estate business, across our power
business, those are absolutely the two
most common reasons we choose not to do
a deal after initially reviewing it.
>> How does a deal actually come to be? So
you have people
uh sourcing deals all over the world.
You have boots on the ground in I don't
know, like 100 countries or however many
countries you have. And then it comes up
to one sort of investment committee. How
does that work?
>> Certainly. So
>> That sounds really hard.
>> We we we're we're very fortunate to have
an extremely large platform that is very
global in nature. And and what's been
built over a number of years now is a
unique business where everywhere we
either seek to invest or we own,
operate, and manage assets, we like to
have a local boots on the ground team.
And that team typically can be split
into two. We like to have local
investment professionals as well as
local operating professionals. And
there's actually a third. We we also
typically have local fundraising
professionals as well in all the markets
that we operate.
And [snorts]
the obvious question is how do you
manage that if you're in all these
different regions and asset classes
around the world? We've pursued a model
where those local teams are given the
responsibility and the autonomy and the
accountability to source, execute, and
operate very independently. And we want
those teams to know those markets inside
and out, see all the local dynamics
hopefully before others, see the the
dynamics that are value creation
opportunities and position our
businesses to capture that value, see
the risks that are coming and position
our businesses to mitigate those risks.
And while we give those local teams lots
of
independence and autonomy to source,
execute, and operate,
when it comes to capital deployment, all
capital deployment decisions get brought
centrally to a a fairly tight group for
approval. And it's through that function
that a small group at Brookfield can
have visibility of everything that's
happening around the world, which is
just good for perspective and controls
and things like that.
But it allows us to get the growth of
having local boots on the ground, but
also the ability to to manage and
oversee everything.
The also the the underappreciated
benefit of that model is it gives us
incredible global perspective. Um
if
one of the teams in one of our regions
around the world is bringing forward an
opportunity, it might be the best
opportunity we've seen in that region in
12 or 18 or 24 months,
but if it's not holding a candle to the
the risk-adjusted returns we can get in
a similar opportunity in another region,
we have that central perspective to say,
"You know what? We're going to allocate
our capital to where we're seeing the
best opportunities globally and across
asset classes."
>> I'm curious about what type of
information flows up. Um so, like is
Does that committee have a name? Like
whatever information flows up into the
the small group of people who are who
are deciding where to allocate capital?
And then how do you take that
information and disseminate it? So, you
learn things in like one part of the
world
>> Yeah.
>> and how do you apply that in another
part of the world?
>> There's two things there. Um we
obviously have a an investment committee
process that's important because it it
substantiates approvals and things like
that and it's it's a process that's
communicated to
um you know, our LP partners and we we
of clo- of course adhere very closely to
that.
The The one thing I would stress is we
don't treat our investment committee
like a single discrete one-time event
where an opportunity is going to be
presented for the first time and then
ruled upon, you know, all in a 1-hour
meeting. Our Our investment teams around
the world through the life cycle of the
investment, they are constantly
iterating with not only the members of
the investment committee, but the
leaders of that platform to get feedback
along the way, make sure they're
building consensus. Uh no deal is
perfect. There's always unique dynamics
or nuances. They're making the
appropriate men and women aware of
those, getting feedback. A lot of our
businesses have a a process where there
is a very very detailed review, you
know, 3 to 4 weeks ahead of the final
investment committee with very senior
individuals and the goal of that call
almost preliminary meeting whether
sometimes it's called a capital
committee or something like that is
that's where you can get really good
feedback on an opportunity. You can draw
on the experience of the whole business
but you still have time to take that
feedback away, maybe do a little bit
more diligence, maybe tweak the deal a
little bit well before you go for a
final investment committee approval.
Uh Shane, the the other thing you
mentioned there
I always give this example is
um Brookfield really runs like a
partnership and I I been fortunate to to
have
helped build the the power business over
the last 10 years and and led it for the
last five.
I I I'll give this example.
On a day-to-day basis when I was just
starting to lead the power business, I
didn't necessarily have a whole lot to
do day-to-day with our real estate
business. But if I hadn't talked to
Brian Kingston who's one of the senior
guys in our firm who who was leading our
real estate business at the time, one of
us would phone each other every two or
three weeks. What are you're seeing?
What's working in your business? What
isn't working? Where are you seeing
demand? Where are you seeing capital
flows? There is that constant
interaction. The business does not
operate in silos. It despite operating
in four verticals from almost a product
perspective, it's incredibly
collaborative with with almost immense
effort put in to consciously ensuring
that we're always sharing information
and perspectives.
>> So the the committee is not like a
vertical. It's not like uh this is real
estate committee. It's you have other
people sitting on that from different
>> For sure, but even if they aren't you
you would pull their expertise in. I I
think one of the unique things about our
our approach is uh there really are no
walls at Brookfield. And we really
intone from the top in how we develop
people, even in how we compensate
people. We really encourage
collaboration such that when the firm
has an opportunity
it doesn't matter what someone's title
is or what region they work in or or
what, you know, investment strategy they
may they spend the majority of their
time on. If there is an individual
within the organization that can be
additive to an investment we're trying
to do or an initiative within the
company, we pull them in. Even if it's a
private equity investment, if there's
someone within our infrastructure
business that can bring value, they get
looped in. It does It doesn't matter
what the job description on their
business card is.
>> There's two paths I want to follow here.
One was you mentioned consensus, but the
example that came to mind for me was
Westinghouse, which seemed like a very
non-consensus idea, at least from the
outside looking at. Now, it's proved out
to be very correct, but how do you think
about taking bets that are maybe
non-consensus?
>> Westinghouse is probably a good example
of sometimes we get asked, "What's an
investment committee process? Or what's
that iterative process like?" We focus a
huge amount of time, the vast majority
of the discussion will be focused on the
downside. We like to believe that if you
buy high-quality businesses in good
markets that have strong downside
protection,
if you underwrite the worst-case
scenario really, really well, the base
case or the expected case will end up
being very attractive. And And
Westinghouse was a great example of
that. You know, when we initially
invested, it was not an in-favor sector
by any means,
but it was a market leader.
It was critical to the global supply
chain of nuclear power, which at the
time was not growing, but had a very,
very
long life tail to it, of which
Westinghouse was a critical supplier.
And we felt it was an industrial
operating business that could be run
better using some of our operational
expertise in other industrial businesses
that could could be brought to bear.
And I can tell you we spent all of our
time focused on the downside. And what
was interesting is that proved out to be
right. You know, Westinghouse is a
market leader. It is absolutely critical
to the supply chain. We were able to
draw drive significant operating
efficiency within that business. All of
that would have led to a a very good
outcome.
And then we got the upside, which is
there was a complete revitalization of
the nuclear power generation sector
around the world, and Westinghouse was
absolutely at the forefront of that. So,
we focused on the downside. We made sure
our downside was protected. Our base
case of an attractive return was
delivered by things within our control,
but there was asymmetric upside if some
uncontrollable things that we thought or
hoped would happen
uh did, but we didn't need them to to
have a good outcome. In that case, we
had a very, very good outcome.
>> What happens after you acquire a
business? You know, I think Brad said,
if you're Brad Jacobs told me, if you're
not improving the business, then you're
just really moving money around. So,
what does that playbook look like when
you go in? What are the variables that
you're really focused on? What's that
first 120 days look like?
>> It's funny. Brookfield is a unique in
the alternative asset management space.
Uh
we come from a background of being
direct owner-operators of businesses. I
don't know if everyone knows this.
Brookfield and its predecessor companies
were founded around 1900. And for the
first 100 years of our history, we were
not an asset manager. We were
essentially an industrial conglomerate
directly owning and operating businesses
ourselves.
And that history really informs
our approach today. We like high-quality
businesses that would be we'd be
comfortable owning directly over the
long term.
We tend to be slightly longer-term
holders of assets. We take a very
hands-on direct owner-operator approach
to our investments. I would say this, we
um
there's not an investment around the
world today where part of our return
bridge, if you will, doesn't come from
operational improvement. And then the
third thing as as a function of our
history, where we used to be 100 cents
of every dollar we invested, today the
largest investor in Brookfield products
is still Brookfield's balance sheet. So
you your question, what does that look
like? We've built a platform where we
like to think we have best-in-class
industry and geographical expertise in
the asset classes we invest in.
Um take power, for example. We have
people in every region around the world
that we operate that are experienced in
operating, technical, development, power
marketing, tax, legal, regulatory
compliance. And when we buy a business,
we bring that expertise to bear.
Most of the time
that expertise we have doesn't actually
go into the company. It sits above the
company and is simply there to support
the business
uh from above. In certain cases, and
depending on the extent of the the
turnaround or the operational
improvement that we're seeking to do,
sometimes we will put our own people
into a business to to drive change. You
made the comment, what does the first
100 120 days look like? Very important.
There are certain standards that we like
to implement, you know, 100 days
probably too long.
Our health and safety standards are
global standards around certain
processes and procedures. Those are
non-negotiables.
Those get rolled out right away, but
they're generally things everyone can
buy into. You know, you acquire a
business as a a new equity investor
and you know, a Brookfield
representative shows up on site and says
we're proud to be the new owner of the
business. We're going to look to drive
some changes as you made it understand.
The first one we always focus on health
and safety. And people that get health
and safety right tend to be the best
operators long-term.
>> How do you think about quickly getting
capital out as a means of de-risking?
So, you buy a business and you put all
this capital out and then how much of
that first year or two is like how much
capital can we get out quickly so we
de-risk this deal?
>> It's an interesting comment. I would say
it's very
deal specific. Um
when we think back over the history of
Brookfield, it it you know, I I joined
Brookfield
about 14 years ago.
I remember back then we used to say
there were really
almost two different types of
investments we would target. You would
either want to buy high-quality
businesses at a a
you know, an attractive value or a fair
value or you would
consider buying a lower quality business
at an exceptionally discounted price.
What's interesting today is our business
has really focused increasingly on the
former. We want to buy extremely
high-quality businesses where you have
incredible visibility into their
long-term cash generating profile. And
And you can have a lot of conviction
that that cash flow will be there 1 year
from now, 3 years from now, 5 years from
now, 10 years from now. Because of that,
I think there is less stress about
trying to extract a bunch of cash in the
near-term. If you had a lower quality
business where it's subject to increased
competition, it's subject to
um perhaps some market variations that
aren't in your control, yeah, you want
to de-risk that really fast. Obviously,
we'll we'll pull capital out of our
businesses whenever we can, but uh given
the types of things we focus on,
uh
we can take an approach of doing it very
prudently.
>> How do you think about leverage? I look
at what's going on in real estate today
>> Yeah.
>> and so much of that seems to be people
got a little bit over their skis,
>> Yeah.
>> uh which creates an opportunity for you,
but how do you think about going into
that with leverage? Where you're sort of
trading off a little bit of financial
return for survivability over market
variations.
>> I I like the way you said that. There
There There's two things about how we
finance our businesses around the world.
One is just the approach we take. We
focus on asset level non-recourse
long-term fixed-rate financing. It's
sometimes not the cheapest financing, uh
but it has some features that we really
like. It takes away that market risk
that we talk about about interesting
interest or financing cost changes over
time.
And the other thing is we like to do
asset level non-recourse financing. That
by choice is harder. You're doing a lot
more individual financings rather than
just grouping huge portfolios of assets
and and putting a debt facility over the
top of them.
But what it really ensures for us is if
you ever run into something unforeseen,
and I I say something unforeseen to the
downside or equally something unforeseen
to the upside,
everything that you have to work through
is done on an individual basis and
you're never
um
tainting, if you will, an entire
portfolio with the dynamics of an
individual asset. And
obviously people will focus on if you
have an asset goes bad, it's nice if
that doesn't taint a broader, but it's
the same on the upside. If you get an
incredible bid for a single asset, but
it's stuck in a debt facility that won't
let you release it, that inflexibility
is not helpful to running your business.
So, the first thing we do is focus
across all of our platforms non-recourse
asset level long duration fixed rate
financing.
The other thing which probably isn't as
obvious is we are huge believers that
you should liquidity is almost
consistently undervalued. Uh liquidity
is this funny thing which is it's every
time it's overvalued when you don't need
it and it's incredibly undervalued when
you do need it. And therefore
we like to prudently finance all of our
businesses, but we always like to ensure
that we have some excess capital for
something unforeseen. And again, that
unforeseen thing could be a positive or
a negative.
The negative, maybe your business plan
isn't going quite the way you expect,
having a little bit of capital to ensure
that you can keep your covenants on side
and give you that run rate to get your
business plan back on track, hugely
valuable. Similarly, having excess
capital for growth, perhaps when others
don't, has probably been one of the
biggest differentiating factors for
Brookfield
over cycles and over decades. That comes
when the sort of the market
um we'll say crashes or there's a panic
or capital gets really tight and then
you have capital, you're available to
deploy it.
>> Absolutely. And we feel that one of the
truly enduring competitive advantages of
Brookfield and something we spend a lot
of time focusing on is always ensuring
that we have tremendous access to
capital because again, when times are
great and everyone has access to capital
that that doesn't seem as important, but
having access to capital when others or
not all market participants do, that is
incredibly valuable and has proven to be
valuable to us across asset classes,
geographies, cycles.
>> You know, people talk a lot about
product market fit, [music] sales
tactics, or pricing strategy, but the
truth is success in selling often comes
down to something [music] much simpler,
the system behind the sale. That's why I
use and love Shop Pay because nobody
does selling better than Shopify.
They built the number one checkout on
the planet and with Shop Pay businesses
see up to 50% [music] higher
conversions. That's not a rounding
error, that's a game changer. Attention
is scarce. Shopify helps you capture it
and convert it. If you're building a
[music] serious business, your commerce
platform needs to meet your customers
wherever they are, on your site, in
store, in their feed, [music] or right
inside their inbox. The less they think,
the more they buy. Businesses that sell
more sell on Shopify. If you're serious
about selling, the tech behind the
scenes matters as much as the product.
Upgrade your business and get the same
checkout that I use. Sign up for your $1
per month trial period at
shopify.com/knowledgeproject,
all lowercase. Go to
upgrade your selling today.
shopify.com/knowledgeproject.
>> How do you maintain that without having
lived through it? And I see this, you
know, there's the 2000 sort of dot com
crash, um,
then there's the housing sort of crisis
of 2008.
But you haven't been deploying capital
during those periods and it's very rare
that people have that perspective having
not lived through it. It's almost like
you have to live it to get the I don't
know. Talk to me about your thoughts
there.
>> A 100%
There's two things. One,
this is where I think culture within an
organization is so valuable.
We we really instill these principles
day in, day out across our business to,
you know, the the young man or woman
who's just come out of school who who
doesn't have any investing experience.
This is what we do across market cycles.
This is our approach. This is why we do
it. You you haven't experienced it yet,
but here is why it is valuable and here
are examples of when it was very
valuable to us and why we do it across
the cycle even if it doesn't seem super
important today.
The the the other thing which just goes
to a an incredible dynamic within
Brookfield is we're constantly
as an organization mixing what I would
say young, energetic, I always use the
term individuals who who can run super
fast and jump super high, but mixing
them with experienced people who have
lived through those cycles, who have
made investments, you know, who have
significant
lessons learned that they can share. A
big part of our culture is mixing that
kind of experienced more senior
perspective with young, energetic,
fast-moving capabilities.
>> Sort of what you had when you came in
almost in that way.
>> Yes.
>> We were talking before we started
recording about dispersion of talent and
how in some industries it makes a big
difference. Where does talent matter the
most at Brookfield and where would where
where does it matter the least?
>> Within our asset management business,
our our most important assets go up and
down an elevator every day. You know, we
we are a a a people business and
therefore
talent is hugely important.
One thing we believe is is
talent doesn't fit a perfect stereotype.
We need lots of talent in different
capabilities in different places across
our business and it would be unrealistic
and unpragmatic to expect
all the incredible talents we need to be
rolled up in a single individual manner
woman. You know, we can have some people
who are incredible judges of risk and
return and incredible analyzers of
businesses. We can have other people who
are very good marketers who can explain
what we're doing in a way
to an investor who isn't living
day by day 20 hours a day in deals every
day of their life.
We need people who are very good leaders
and and team builders and builders of
platforms. What differentiates us over
the long term is some mixture of the
talent we have and therefore we spend a
lot of time focused on developing it and
retaining it but then also creating a
culture that can extract the best
out of the
talent within the suite of people that
that work for Brookfield.
>> Go deeper on the extracting the talent
out of the people who work there cuz I
often think about you know, we were
talking about sports before like I think
about the NFL, right? And the NFL is a
great example of like we have this
incredibly talented person and then we
put them in this environment that we're
trying to like it's highly structured,
it's highly organized and it's all
geared towards that person performing on
Sunday.
>> Yeah, it's funny. I I think I love
sports and and I feel like football's an
incredible example because one of the
things I love about I live in London so
American football
is you've got people that all play
different positions. You've got
offensive linemen who don't worry about
catching the ball, they don't worry
about running the ball, but their job is
hugely important.
Then you've got wide receivers who don't
worry about throwing the ball, but want
to be best in the world at running
routes and catching it. Brookfield's no
different.
We want people who we want to to your
term extracting the best value the best
talent out of our people. We want to
find the things that we need to do as an
organization, raise capital, invest
capital, manage business, product
development, work with our teams, build
platforms. We want to find the things
that our people are the best at and
allow them to really focus on those
things. And you know, if you've got a
wide receiver who's great at catching
the ball, you you can support them with
people who are good at other functions.
And then there are a handful of people
who who need to be able to sit above it
all and oversee everything, whether
that's your your coach your football
analogy, your coach, your quarterback,
your ownership.
And and that's your executive team.
>> I'm curious how you go about identifying
talent. That must be like such a hard
thing cuz I think in finance, maybe I'll
add some context to this and I want to
spend a few beats on it. There's people
who talk like they know what they're
doing and then there's people who know
what they're doing. It's not obvious the
two. And the other thing that stuck out
to me is you mentioned that it always
doesn't fit in a box. There's no central
casting about what to look for.
>> One of the things
I love about Brookfield, I think a lot
of people who who work at Brookfield
love about our approach is it is a a
complete meritocracy. We really don't
care what your background is,
where you were born, how you were
raised, who you pray to, who you love.
It's really about what what value can
you add
to the firm. And and again, that value
can come in lots of different ways, but
there is no stereotype that we are
looking for. And it really all just
boils down to
uh, how much value can you can you add
to the firm.
As an organization, one thing we do and
perhaps different than
other organizations,
is we do identify young talent very
early. Um,
we like to I try our best to identify
young talent very early and give them
perhaps more responsibility and
accountability than they would sometimes
get
in different environments. And when it
works, it works incredibly well because
you get these fantastic men or women in
their early 30s who've been in the
workforce for 10 years, but have the
equivalent of of 20 or 25 years worth of
deal reps or people management or
product marketing that that they would
have had somewhere else. And those are
incredibly valuable individuals to our
organization. We obviously need to make
sure we're
um,
very proficient in in identifying that
talent. And we also always need to check
and make sure we are coaching that
talent up over time. Uh, it's not a
straight up into the right line for
everyone.
>> What do you look for personally that's
like non-obvious? And I'll give you an
example. I was listening to an interview
the other day when I was doing research
for this actually, and the guy
said, "I look for obsessive
psychopaths." And that it stood out to
me. It was memorable. What are the
non-obvious things that you look for?
>> It's funny. I'm going to give you the
same answer, but sometimes we we get it
to a different question which was what
what is the
um
what are the attributes of Brookfield's
culture or the people that do the best
at Brookfield? The line I sometimes use
is we like people who who who are almost
kind of nerdy. And and I don't mean
they're they're nerdy in that they
aren't enjoyable to hang out with or
can't carry a conversation, but they're
intellectually curious in that they like
to look at a hard problem that other
people have struggled to solve and
they're willing to kind of roll up their
sleeves and put in the hard work to to
try and solve it to generate an outsized
positive return or an outsized positive
outcome for for the business. We like
those people who are intellectually
curious and and kind of the derivative
of that is
um hard working and willing to tackle
hard problems and put in the time and
effort to solve things that others
can't. That would be one.
The the other one is this is always a
people business. We it is very it is
impossible to get ahead in this business
if if you can't work well with other
people. It doesn't matter how talented
someone is, they're not more talented
than the entire team of people you can
put around them and therefore having
people that are exceptionally good at
different uh aspects of the job but
equally
can work with others who where they can
complement other individuals or be
complemented by other individuals to get
more out of the broader team, those are
the people that that succeed the most.
>> What does that look like inside when it
goes wrong? Like the ability to work
with other people.
>> Well,
rather than say it as a negative, I'll
say it as a positive.
One of the things I've always said about
Bruce is
it always seems like he cares more about
the success of others than he does about
himself. He's always more concerned
about ensuring that other people get the
credit or other people are are
positioned to to continuously develop.
What's interesting is you see that in a
leader who built an amazing
organization, you also see that in very
junior people.
Those that just want to contribute to a
good team outcome and aren't really
worried about who gets the credit. I'm
thinking back to the previous question.
You know, sometimes
one of the things one of the ways I
describe culture at Brookfield is we
like those individuals who maybe they do
a great deal or or they complete an
initiative that was very successful. Um
the non-Brookfield thing to do would be,
you know, go on a three-week victory lap
telling everyone what you just
accomplished. The Brookfield thing to do
would be to come back the next day and
say, "Okay, what are we working on now?"
And I I do think you see that in very
young people as a really redeeming and
enduring qual- quality. And when people
don't have that, um
I would generally say they they they
don't ascend or or they don't last
within the business as much as the ones
that do. Does it need to be perfectly
proportional? No, I don't think so.
>> Are you guys using AI internally?
>> Absolutely.
>> How are you using it?
>> So so
it's interesting
I always think there's three ways to
play the AI theme, if you will. One is
to invest in the models. You know, you
invest in chat GPT or Anthropic and
um we don't do that. To be clear, there
are some people doing it and being
wildly successful. Um it's just not our
area of expertise.
The second way
is to build the infrastructure
that supports the growth and increased
utilization of AI. And and that at a
simple level is is the the data centers
and the power that supports them and
that is the largest and fastest growing
investment theme at Brookfield and
it really brings together our digital
infrastructure expertise, our power
expertise, our real estate expertise. We
we feel we are market leading in that
regard.
>> [snorts]
>> The third area is using AI within our
business. And we are doing this very,
very actively and
I I think it's a fascinating topic.
People say, "How are you rolling out AI
in our business?" What's interesting is
we own 500 companies around the world.
We have encouraged all of them
to use AI within their business, trial
and error different AI applications that
you think will enhance the efficiency,
productivity, growth of your portfolio
company.
The only thing we ask is you share the
results of that process. So, if you find
a a solution that is very additive, it
doesn't matter if that's in a
infrastructure business in Australia, if
they find a great AI application that is
very additive to our business, we share
it across we've created a structure
whereby that information can be shared
across the entire company so we can use
it elsewhere. Similarly, if that company
tried that application and it didn't
work, share that information such that
499 other companies don't don't try and
have it fail.
It's interesting, we're really seeing
we're very early days, but the the
impact is is amazing. And and there's
two that would jump out. One is there's
some places where AI is having a very
discrete and very
meaningful positive uh transformative
near term impact. Um our private equity
business is really focuses on industrial
companies and critical services. We're
using AI to help with pricing models.
We're using AI to re-evaluate how some
of our shop floors and factory factory
are configured, questioning processes
that have existed for 20 years, and some
of the the efficiency and productivity
improvements that were that are coming
out of those exercises is amazing. That
would be point one.
There are two places
across, I would say, almost a trillion
dollars of assets where AI is having a
huge benefit, and maybe it's not as
exciting, but um
it is very intuitive.
One is preventative maintenance on a
trillion dollars of real assets around
the world, and the other is health and
safety for for for the 300,000 operating
professionals we have in those 500
uh portfolio companies. The ability for
for a computer to look at a piece of
machinery that only gets serviced every
three or five years, but can just look
at
an infinite number of data points and
use pattern recognition to say something
doesn't look right. I know that piece of
machinery is not supposed to be serviced
for two more years, but somebody should
go look at it. Sure enough,
we send someone out to go look at it,
and a bolt is loose, or something is
leaking, and and we we can preserve a
lot of value.
Um similarly, just letting a computer
that can run a million simulations
instantaneously
help people address self health and
safety concerns in different
environments around the world. Those are
the factory floor one is much more
discreet.
Those two, preventative maintenance and
health and safety, working in the vast
majority of our businesses.
>> What does it look like in health and
safety in the same way that you sort of
gave an example with what it looks like
for preventative maintenance? Like how
does it look?
>> of this is actually using the the
technology. Some of this is a forcing
function, if you will.
Um
in some of our infrastructure businesses
where people are constantly building
different assets in multiple places.
What we we have a program where when a
worker shows up on site, they have to
use the camera on their phone to scan
the site and the the the program will
say, "Here are 10 health and safety
risks that we've identified." Now,
candidly, experienced workers probably
would have identified those, but it's a
great forcing function that one they
have to do it, two they're reminded of
it, three now they're thinking about
those things. It it's health and safety
is incredibly important in the
businesses that that that we own and and
this is a great way of using one of the
greatest technologies in the world to to
to drive one of our most important
initiatives.
>> Is there any other examples that come to
mind where you're like, "Oh, that's so
cool and it's it's giving you a
competitive advantage or
>> One of the things that we're seeing as
we use AI in our businesses,
it feels like sometimes there is this
this fear, "Oh, AI is going to take
everyone's jobs." Um that's not what
we're seeing as much in our business. Um
and and that's a that's a 30,000-ft
statement. AI will cause some structural
turnover in in in certain occupations,
but um really what we're seeing is it
causing
the same man or woman that you employed
yesterday, uh they're getting two or
three hours of their day back to focus
on higher-value
parts of their job. And therefore, the
same person who you liked and were
supportive of, all of a sudden they're
just more productive. And it's kind of
taking the top off in terms of what we
can expect out of our people and what we
can expect out of our teams going
forward. And it does feel like we are
still in the very early innings of this.
If you asked us
more large-scale
what where where do we think AI has
a bigger impact, we think
the role that robotics can play in so
many production functions and industrial
functions around the world now that that
robotics can be reinforced by computers
that can think and run a million
simulations in real time. Like
everything, uh what's what's the term?
Uh
it it will happen slower than people
expect, but have a bigger impact than
people expect. We we very much see that
dynamic playing out in the use of
robotics.
>> This sort of like the the pattern of
bubbles, right? Is that there's this
uh hype. In the short term, it always uh
disappoints people. In the long term, it
always exceeds the hype, but it's can
you survive long enough to get the
benefit out of it? Because people make
fortunes, but people go broke.
>> It's funny,
exactly that dynamic. And again, we like
to think we are one of if not the the
leading investor in AI infrastructure
around the world, which huge sums of
capital are being invested in on a
global scale. And um
we often get the question, will there be
overbuilt? Absolutely unequivocally yes.
There's overbuild in almost every
product and every asset class
everywhere in the world in every
economic cycle. But the really important
thing is is that overbuild is not
random. In our business, we only build
against long-term contracts with with
high credit quality counterparties. Uh
we don't build on spec. And and two,
we're very thoughtful about where we
build. We want to focus in tier one
markets where there's multiple end users
and multiple sources of demand such
even at the end of that 20-year contract
life, there will be multiple options to
to use that facility or to re-contract
that facility. Um to your point about
the these cycles almost have a recurring
um trajectory to them.
Uh we we see that in ours and and we
think there's incredible things that we
can do
uh while participating in this growth to
avoid the the boom and bust that that
uh
sometimes happens in in other asset
classes.
>> I'm curious when the last time
Brookfield was the underdog.
>> The way we
I would say as an organization
uh approach the job or approach the
opportunity is is pretty
we try to be balanced every time, you
know, come in
uh neutral. And and
we're very fortunate that we are at the
forefront of some very very large
investment trends and investment themes
and some very very large asset classes
to invest in such that while we may
invest at very significant size, there's
always the opportunity to do more. And
and therefore, we're always looking to
can we invest more at attractive
risk-adjusted returns. Um we we don't
spend a lot of time thinking about what
have we done in the past. It's it's a
very forward-looking organization from
that perspective.
>> I remember, you know, that Michael
Jordan in The Last Dance, he said
something that stuck out to me about the
whole underdog thing. He's the best in
the world of basketball at the time. Uh
and he would like make up stuff just to
make himself the underdog. And I always
thought that was interesting.
>> Yeah. I I don't know if it's that
extreme, but uh
you know, it is a very enjoyable thing
that we're fortunate to wake up and in a
business and investing in themes where
the question is not can you grow? It's
how much can you grow and can you do the
right growth? And therefore, it doesn't
matter if we've done two, three or 10
deals already.
If the 11th deal is very attractive, we
want to do that one as well.
>> I'm curious how you think about your
your ambition over the next 20 or 30
years.
>> The first thing that that comes to mind
when when I hear that is
it is amazing what what Bruce and the
senior leadership team has built over
the last 25 years. It's truly an
incredible platform that's
very differentiated
and I would say somewhat under
appreciated in terms of its scale and
its ability to produce
very attractive
returns but on a scale and a consistency
that that very few if any can match.
That is truly the incredible value
proposition of Brookfield is is not just
the returns we generate but how
consistently we do it and and at what
scale of capital deployment. And the
amazing thing about the platform we have
is it's got such an incredible organic
growth trajectory that is very visible
and goes out 5 10 years into the future
where we have complete control over our
success in that growth. What gets I
think myself and and others who are
coming up in the business very excited
is can we continuously
keep pivoting that trajectory above that
incredible status quo that's that's been
passed down.
>> If you look at I think the plan that you
guys made public was 2 trillion by 2030.
Is that accurate? Yeah. So, if we were
to go to 2050, like hypothetically, what
what is that ambition? Is it that we're
in the right places? Is that we're
managing a significant percentage of the
world's capital? What is the
>> Maybe I'd come at it from from two
perspectives. From an investment
perspective,
um
what has helped build the business into
what it is today it is really two things
that are going to look different in the
future, but are very repeatable in the
in the nature of what we need to do. One
is that point of we're very consistent
in the asset classes and the types of
deals we focus on,
but we spend an incredible amount of
time thinking about where is the market
going? Uh you know, what are the
critical goods and services and assets
of that are going to make up the
backbone of the global economy 5 years
from now, 10 years from now. We
absolutely need to keep doing this and
we need to continue to be as good about
that in the future as we have in the
past. And if we do that, the breadth of
what we invest in is going to keep
expanding. There's going to be some
things that that we think are going to
be big opportunities today uh that will
become big opportunities in 5 or 10
years. There's going to be some things
10, 15, 20 years from now that nobody is
even thinking about today that as they
approach, we want to identify them,
capitalize on them, and then invest in
them when they become large and
attractive opportunities. So so that
would be point one. And and the other
thing that I think is really going to
drive growth over let's say a 20 or
25-year period is
alternatives are in a really exciting
point today. They they've grown
tremendously over the last two decades
essentially on the back of increased and
growing institutional allocations to the
space.
And that's going to continue. The The
institutional allocations to
alternatives are going to double from
where they are today over the next 10
years. So, that would drive tremendous
growth in our business if we only
focused on institutions.
But, there is this new
very large, but long-term
new growth avenue for our business,
which we refer to as the individual
investor. That's your retail and high
net worth investor. That's your annuity
and insurance policy holder. That's your
401k and retiree market here in the
United States. That market is actually
bigger. The individual market is
actually bigger than the institutional
market today.
And it has almost zero penetrations from
alternatives. And therefore,
the ability to take that disciplined
investing approach that we we've
delivered to institutional investors for
the last 20 years, keep doing that over
the next 20 or 20 5 years, but also find
ways to deliver that same approach that
gives you those strong returns at a
consistency and a scale, deliver it to
the individual market. If we do that, we
should be able to replicate if not
exceed the the growth profile of of the
last two decades.
>> One thing that strikes me as super
interesting around retail
is a lot of retail investment has, you
know, if we take an S&P 500 ETF, for
example, a lot of growth in that is
you're capturing companies coming in and
you're you're riding that wave up. You
might not be able to identify them in
advance, but you get all that growth.
And now for
possibly the first time in history, we
have these incredibly
large companies that grow outside of
retail access.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm I'm talking about like SpaceX or
OpenAI and you've created or Stripe
would be another example. You've created
100 billion or trillion dollars of we'll
say value. We'll use that term a little
loosely, but you've created that and now
retail hasn't captured any of that when
traditionally they would have been in
the S&P 500 and rode that up.
>> There's absolutely that dynamic, but
there's another one as well, which is in
today's public market where index
inclusion is such a big driver of
demand, we're increasingly seeing
larger companies do really really well
in the public markets, but companies
that for whatever reason can't get index
inclusion
struggle more in public markets. And as
a result, your S&P 500 is increasingly a
larger super large cap index where
so many businesses around the world, in
fact, the majority of businesses around
the world are I would say medium to
large size,
but it's actually increasingly difficult
to get exposure to those types of
businesses in the public markets. And
therefore, what what we think
alternatives can do as part of a
appropriately mixed and diversified
portfolio is just ensuring that those
individual investors can get exposure to
the breadth of the market that they want
to and
and different asset classes or sizes of
companies that that maybe it is tough to
do if you're you're simply looking at
public equities.
>> Take me behind the scenes of Oaktree.
What happened? How did that acquisition
come about?
How was the internal process around it?
I want to hear the story.
>> So, within Brookfield,
um, there there are lots of individuals
who who are very good at generating
ideas. And what's great is we have 1,300
investment professionals to to filter
through those ideas. And
um,
I will tell you quite early in my
career, I I was very fortunate. You talk
We spoke earlier about having very good
fortune.
I was asked to look at another
alternative asset manager. This is 13
years ago and and this manager had run
into some stumbles and some hard times
and and was in need of some capital. And
what's funny is I'll I'll tell you this
was probably my first or second year at
Brookfield. I really struggled to
understand the right way to underwrite
and figure out this business. And then
one day the light bulb went on. I said,
"Well, if I can understand how
Brookfield works,
I can probably understand how this
business works." And it was very
fortunate early in my career to
have the opportunity to really
understand how was Brookfield growing,
where was it making money, where was it
um seeing the greatest growth trajectory
and and the greatest value creation.
Um
because of that initial process, we've
just began to track uh
the other large alternative asset
managers and how we were doing relative
to them, how we were trading, how we
were growing, etc.
And one of those other managers at the
time was was Oaktree. And I remember in
beginning of 2018,
we felt Oaktree was this amazing
business that wasn't fully appreciated
uh in the public markets because it was
very counter-cyclical. Um
it performed really well when when
markets went down, but its its growth
and its profits, you know, maybe began
to plateau off when markets got really
strong given the
uh its leadership in opportunistic
credit. Uh especially back then,
opportunistic credit was was a a very
large component of their business. It's
broadened out a lot since then. And I
remember at the beginning of 2018 going
to Bruce and and saying this company
looks very undervalued. And he gave me
one very simple piece of feedback, which
was
you're right, it looks undervalued. But
what would be amazing is could we do
something strategic with them? They're
incredible market leading in credit,
which is an area that that we didn't
have a lot of exposure at the time. Is
there something strategic we could do
with that organization? And we took that
away into our little lab and came up
with this idea of essentially buying out
the public and partnering with the
founders and senior management of
Oaktree. And
um we presented the that idea to them in
the latter part of of 2018 and did a
transaction in the early part of 2019.
>> It's so interesting because you know,
public markets have basically, with the
exception of the COVID dip for a little
bit there, uh they've gone up and up
since then. So, the counter cyclical
cyclicality. Yeah, they they the you
know, they haven't really had a down
market in order to give that benefit
that you sort of are betting on. How do
you think about it?
>> Well, this is where that organization is
is exceptional in in really two ways.
What one
uh they they've broadened their
uh product offering the same way we've
broadened at Brookfield. Uh Oaktree's
done an incredible broad job broadening
their business. They have incredible
performing
uh credit strategies as well as they've
found some some niche areas of the
market, certain asset classes, certain
securities where where they are unique
and can consistently outperform. That's
point one. But two,
within their opportunistic credit
strategies, they
do an exceptional job of constantly
being ready when those market
opportunities do exist. So, I'll give
the example we made the the the initial
investment, the initial partnership in
2019.
They were incredibly active during
COVID.
The business took an incredible step
change. That wasn't a particularly long
period of market downturn, but it was
that, you know, brief almost cyclical
opportunity for them to drive a step
change of growth in their business and
they did it very very well.
>> I want to come back to working hard
again for a second. There's something I
meant to ask as a follow-up there, which
is
you give 100% 100% of the time,
then you had kids. Talk to me about that
and how you harmonize between work and
life.
>> There's two things that that come to
mind when you hear that question. One is
there's two things that that
matter to me in life
more than anything else and they're
miles ahead of third place.
One is my family
and two is Brookfield and that's where I
spend 150% of my capacity. Now, let's be
clear.
I have great friends and and we get out
and have a good time, but really my
priorities 99 times out of 100 are my
family
and Brookfield.
One thing
that that
being very honest and and transparent,
we have a young family. We're fortunate
to have a very great and amazing young
family. I remember when we were thinking
of starting our family and I don't know
if I'm crazy to say this, but you
question
how am I going to have time and will I
still have the ability to care as much
about the job, which was very important
to me after we start our family. And And
two conclusions uh I'm not sure if I I'm
not sure if everyone goes through this
learning process.
One is there is no limit in the capacity
about how much you can care about
things. I
care more about my family than I could
have ever imagined. I don't think I care
any different about Brookfield than I
did uh before and after uh we started
our family. And And then secondly, you
do find ways to become more efficient.
Obviously, time with the family is is
incredibly important to me. Other stuff
did fall off the plate, but what's funny
is you don't miss it. You know, you you
find stuff that you you were spending
time on, but when it's gone, you don't
miss it cuz it's been replaced by
something you value so much more.
>> It's a forcing function for
prioritization.
>> An the best forcing function in the
world because I felt like there was no
no space. I felt like there was no time.
And now
uh we have this amazing young family
that
I'll I'll go to incredible lengths to
make time for, and it doesn't feel like
I had to give up anything on the work
front, but some things fell away that
that I don't even really couldn't tell
you what they were.
>> How do you allocate your time? And I
mean this specifically in the how do I
bring outside information to my life?
How do I What do you read? What is the
stuff that you consume?
Uh and then how do you allocate your
time at work? Are there certain
priorities that get more or less?
>> It's interesting. I I read a lot
uh
at work. Um I'm a big believer if
someone in the organization
emails or or sends a a deck to be
discussed, you read it before you start
that conversation. Um that's it leads to
a more informed conversation. You can
think more thoughtfully reading it to
yourself than you can trying to to read
and listen at the same time. So I like
to read
almost everything that's been sent. Um
and
when at all possible, I like to read it
ahead of a a discussion. I also read a
lot of news. Um sometimes people say,
"Yeah, what's the last book you've
read?" I'll tell you, I don't have a lot
of time for for reading pleasure books.
Uh but I do read a lot of of content
about our business or news about the the
themes that we invest in.
>> What does that give you? Is it organized
for you by somebody else? Is it like
you're scanning the newspapers every
day? Like And what do you get out of
that?
>> Yeah, it's an interesting question. One
one thing I I do quite enjoy is
getting almost a daily update of um and
different services do it for different
asset classes. You know, these are the
15 relevant headlines in infrastructure.
And you read the headlines and maybe you
click on one of them to get more
information, but just reading the 15
headlines gives you a little bit of a
sense or a pulse of the direction of
travel. But if there's one that's more
relevant or more interesting, you do a
little bit of a deeper dive on that. Um
I certainly don't sit there and
you know, read publication XYZ cover to
cover every morning. Different people
have a different approach. I don't do
that.
>> I understand. What deal's been the most
fun for you to work on?
>> There's been so many. Uh
I
and I don't I think you're supposed to
love all your children equally. Uh I I
don't I think it would be very tough to
pick one. Some that stick out. One one
of the very first deals I was fortunate
to to be part of the deal team. We made
a very small cold storage business uh
investment in Canada early in my time in
in private equity. It was a small
business. It was a great business. It it
was underperforming when we bought it.
It turned out to be a fantastic
investment. This is not diminishing the
incredible work that was put in.
It was a somewhat simple business in
what the value drivers were, so it was a
nice one to to really learn on. It was
nice because it was a good one to learn
on and it was successful, so in
hindsight it it you know, I reflect very
positively on it. Some of our first
investments right after moving to Europe
when we were trying to build out that
that European power business. Um those I
remember being really fun because we
were
somewhat of a uh
a young almost scrappy team trying to
build something from scratch, but in
hindsight we we did a few very good
deals and that were quite foundational
to what we were fortunate to build over
the next six, eight, 10 years. And then,
you know, some of the big deals.
Westinghouse, uh Oaktree, um those have
been fun because of their scarcity,
their size, the the the broader impact
they've had on the organization, so um
it'd be tough to pick one.
>> When are you happiest at work?
>> Great question. I would not say I am
happiness happiest when everything is
going perfectly. It's almost one of
those things where you you you want to
have enough on the go that you feel a
little bit stretched. Um
What one of the things I really like
about this job, and sorry if this is a
tangent, is I used to play a lot of
sports. And and one of the things I love
about uh this job is the competitiveness
of it. And and therefore,
I like that exercise of trying to figure
out the next thing or improving
something that is imperfect or
um it it if if target is X, try and do X
plus one. I'm not happiest when
everything is perfect and under control.
It feels good when we feel like we're
we're within our culture of of
discipline and methodical, but we feel
like we're we're trying to
continuously grow and continuously
improve and and we're we're we're really
pushing to do that.
>> A lot of people I interview say they're
best in a crisis.
And I'm curious as to why you think that
would be true. Why are some people
better in a crisis than others? And can
you predict who in your organization is
going to be good in a crisis or does a
crisis have to happen? And what would be
the indicators of that?
>> I do think you could predict it. There
is an incredible positive attribute in
being able to digest information
somewhat unemotionally and make the best
decision at that point in time.
Earlier in the conversation, I mentioned
that the organization
is is very balanced, very measured, and
very forward-looking.
I always like when when things move and
generally when you're making this
reference, it's when markets move
negatively.
They're some of the most incredible
conversations we have as a business. And
one thing that that always shocked me is
we don't spend the first 30 minutes of a
60-minute conversation discussing the
negative impact on on what we have. We
spend all 60 minutes saying one, how can
we mitigate, protect,
ensure that the value of what we have is
preserved,
but then how can we look to capitalize
or capture on the opportunities that
that this crisis or or this
downturn [snorts]
may have created.
>> This has been an amazing conversation. I
want to thank you for your time today.
>> Well, thank you for having us.
>> Woo!
>> [music]